# Migration from 1.x.y to 2.0.z

***Please note that 2.0.x is still in development and needs some work. However all of these instructions also apply if you use the git repository on the latest commit, since a lot of the changes for 2.0.x are already in place.***

~~First off 2.0.x is fully backwards compatible to 1.7.x and if you do not change anything it should just work better and nothing else should be differnt.~~
Version 2.0.x is no longer a drop in replacement for 1.7.x!
Due to some large changes in the code base, the LedController is now a template class which requires the dimensions of your LED-Matrix as Argument so now instead of having the type `LedController`, the type is `LedController<columns,rows>`.
This simplifies the whole interface and reduces the need for pointers.
The examples are updated and respect these changes.
Another side effect of this is, that you do not need to specify the total nmber of segments any more, since the dimensions are known.
That is why that argument is removed from all constructors.

2.0.x introduces the controller_configuration class template.
It can be used to set all the properties the controller should have and then be passed as argument to the init function or the constructor of the LedController.
It needs the same dimensions as the LedController and provides a simple check for a valid configuration.

The next big feature is support for multiple rows.
Now you can connect multiple Matricies to different CS Pins and control them all using a single LedController instead of only being able to connect them all in a row.
Another option is to connect all of the Segments in series and still have them act as if they were in different rows.
This feature is called virtual multi row and has to be set in the controller configuration.
For this feature to work, the length of each row has to be the same, in other words it is allowed to have two rows with two segments each but not to have one row with one segment and another with two.

**A detailed documentation page will come soon.**
